SSO 7.4 upgrade (#575)
BCDevOps/developer-experience: docs/ssoUpgrade/sso-7.4-upgrade-notification.md

### What is happening?

We are upgrading our RedHat SSO Services from 7.3 to 7.4, which is KeyCloak 4.8 to 9.0.
- This is a major version upgrade, please see the release note for details: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.4/html-single/release_notes/index
- Here are the new SSO documentations: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.4/
- This upgrade will also include some BCGov login theme bug fixes: https://github.com/bcgov/ocp-sso/issues/77

### When?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The planning is for an accelerated deployment cadence in order to remove blockers for the OpenShift 4 migration.  This will require fast action from our development teams, both from the initial functional validation activities, as well as notifying the platform-experience teams immediately of any critical issues identified during testing.

The full upgrade timeline is to have the upgrade rolled out to production within 3 weeks.
```

- Dev SSO:
Please expect the upgrade to happen at Thursday Aug 26th. As no production application will be affected, service maintenance downtime will be scheduled during work hours. Expect 1.5 hours of maintenance window for each environment.

- Test SSO:
Test upgrade is scheduled to happen at Sep 9th. We are setting aside 2 weeks before the Test upgrade so that app teams will be able to get prepared for going to production (if actions needed, app teams could verify during Test upgrade). As no production application will be affected, service maintenance downtime will be scheduled during work hours. Expect 1.5 hours of maintenance window for each environment.

- Production SSO:
We will set aside another weeks before introducing the production SSO service upgrade. Specific date and time to be determined. The maintenance period will be scheduled after office hours to minimize impacts. Expect 1.5 hours of maintenance window for each environment.

### Will there be an impact on the Platform apps?

> Yes, there will be service downtime during the upgrade. In addition, do expect some minor changes to existing configurations, such as authentication flows and OIDC settings. There will not be direct impact on how the authentication works according to the release note, but some configurations will be updated automatically during the upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, there will be service downtime during the upgrade.  The expected service outage is 1.5 hours, with the production environment scheduled outside of business hours. (after 5:00PM)

In addition, expect some minor changes to existing configurations such as authentication flows and OIDC settings.  Both from update flow configuration changes, as well as template fixes we are applying at the same time.
```

### Do I need to do anything?

We highly recommend teams to test out existing usages for applications on Dev and Test KeyCloak, for example to test on any custom authentication flows and IDP integrations. If the upgrade does affect application's authentication process, please work on remediating it and get ready with plans to update for your production application integration.

> We are planning on a 2-week break between Dev and Test upgrade for teams to test out the application integration as well as API usage. In the case where teams do find out necessary work required before upgrade happen to Prod, the Test instance upgrade will be a good chance to test it out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There will be a __two week__ interval between Dev and Test upgrades where you and your team will be able to test out your application integration as well as API Usage. 

Between Test and Prod, there will be __one week__ to report any bugs, or integration issues. The two week interval between Dev and Test environments will the best opportunity to debug and integrate your application with the new version of Keycloak.
```

### What is happening?

We are upgrading our RedHat SSO Services from 7.3 to 7.4, which is KeyCloak 4.8 to 9.0.
- This is a major version upgrade, please see the release note for details: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.4/html-single/release_notes/index
- Here are the new SSO documentations: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.4/
- This upgrade will also include some BCGov login theme bug fixes: https://github.com/bcgov/ocp-sso/issues/77

### When?

- Dev SSO: `Aug 26th`

> As no production application will be affected, service maintenance downtime will be scheduled during work hours. Expect 1.5 hours of maintenance window for each environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As no production application will be affected, service maintenance downtime will be scheduled during work hours.  The expected service outage is for 1.5 hours.
```

- Test SSO: `Sep 9th`

> We are setting aside 2 weeks before the Test upgrade so that app teams will be able to get prepared for going to production (if actions needed, app teams could verify during Test upgrade). As no production application will be affected, service maintenance downtime will be scheduled during work hours. Expect 1.5 hours of maintenance window for each environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As no production application will be affected, service maintenance downtime will be scheduled during work hours.  The expected service outage is for 1.5 hours.
2 weeks are set aside for Test environment testing before the Production environment is scheduled to be upgraded.
```

### What is happening?

We are upgrading our RedHat SSO Services from 7.3 to 7.4, which is KeyCloak 4.8 to 9.0.
- This is a major version upgrade, please see the release note for details: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.4/html-single/release_notes/index
- Here are the new SSO documentations: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.4/
- This upgrade will also include some BCGov login theme bug fixes: https://github.com/bcgov/ocp-sso/issues/77

### When?

The planning is for an accelerated deployment cadence in order to remove blockers for the OpenShift 4 migration.  This will require fast action from our development teams, both from the initial functional validation activities, as well as notifying the platform-experience team immediately of any critical issues identified during testing.

> The full upgrade timeline is to have the upgrade rolled out to production within 3 weeks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full upgrade timeline is to have the upgrade rolled out to production within 3 weeks.

```

- Dev SSO: `Aug 26th`
As no production application will be affected, service maintenance downtime will be scheduled during work hours. Expect 1.5 hours of maintenance window for each environment.

- Test SSO: `Sep 9th`
We are setting aside 2 weeks before the Test upgrade so that app teams will be able to get prepared for going to production (if actions needed, app teams could verify during Test upgrade). As no production application will be affected, service maintenance downtime will be scheduled during work hours. Expect 1.5 hours of maintenance window for each environment.

- Production SSO: `Sep 17`

> We will set aside another weeks before introducing the production SSO service upgrade. Specific date and time to be determined. The maintenance period will be scheduled after office hours to minimize impacts. Expect 1.5 hours of maintenance window for each environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service downtime for the upgrade is scheduled for 5:30PM - 7:30PM (2 hours).
```

### Will there be an impact on the Platform apps?

Yes, there will be service downtime during the upgrade.  The expected service outage is 1.5 hours, with the production environment scheduled outside of business hours. (after 5:00PM)

In addition, expect some minor changes to existing configurations such as authentication flows and OIDC settings.  Both from update flow configuration changes, as well as theme fixes we are applying at the same time.

### Do I need to do anything?

> We highly recommend teams to test out existing usages for applications on Dev and Test KeyCloak, for example to test on any custom authentication flows and IDP integrations. If the upgrade does affect application's authentication process, please work on remediating it and get ready with plans to update for your production application integration.

Author: ```suggestion
After the upgrade is in place on Dev environment, you should start testing out the application integration right away and alert the PS team immediately if you find any critical/unsolvable application integration issues caused by the upgrade.
```

> There will be a __two week__ interval between Dev and Test upgrades where you and your team will be able to test out your application integration as well as API Usage. 

Author: ```suggestion
There will be a __two week__ interval between Dev and Test upgrades where you and your team will be able to test out your application integration as well as API Usage. We will assume that Dev SSO upgrade works fine for your application integration if we do not hear any issues by Sep 4.
```

### What is happening?

We are upgrading our RedHat SSO Services from 7.3 to 7.4, which is KeyCloak 4.8 to 9.0.
- This is a major version upgrade, please see the release note for details: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.4/html-single/release_notes/index
- Here are the new SSO documentations: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.4/
- This upgrade will also include some BCGov login theme bug fixes: https://github.com/bcgov/ocp-sso/issues/77

### When?

The planning is for an accelerated deployment cadence in order to remove blockers for the OpenShift 4 migration.  This will require fast action from our development teams, both from the initial functional validation activities, as well as notifying the platform-experience team immediately of any critical issues identified during testing.

The full upgrade timeline is to have the upgrade rolled out to production within 3 weeks.

> - Dev SSO: `Aug 26th`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Dev SSO: `Aug 26th`
```

As no production application will be affected, service maintenance downtime will be scheduled during work hours.  The expected service outage is for 1.5 hours.

2 weeks are set aside for Dev environment testing before the Test environment is scheduled to be upgraded.

> - Test SSO: `Sep 9th`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Test SSO: `Sep 9th`
```

As no production application will be affected, service maintenance downtime will be scheduled during work hours.  The expected service outage is for 1.5 hours.
1 week is set aside for Test environment validation before the Production environment is scheduled to be upgraded.

> - Production SSO: `Sep 17`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Production SSO: `Sep 17`
```

Current service downtime for the upgrade is scheduled for 5:30PM - 7:30PM (2 hours), on September 17, 2020.

### Will there be an impact on the Platform apps?

Yes, there will be service downtime during the upgrade.  The expected service outage is 1.5 hours, with the production environment scheduled outside of business hours. (after 5:00PM)

In addition, expect some minor changes to existing configurations such as authentication flows and OIDC settings.  Both from update flow configuration changes, as well as theme fixes we are applying at the same time.

### Do I need to do anything?

After the upgrade is in place on Dev environment, you should start testing out the application integration right away and alert the PS team immediately if you find any critical/unsolvable application integration issues caused by the upgrade.

There will be a __two week__ interval between Dev and Test upgrades where you and your team will be able to test out your application integration as well as API Usage. We will assume that Dev SSO upgrade works fine for your application integration if we do not hear any issues by Sep 4.

> Between Test and Prod, there will be __one week__ to report any bugs, or integration issues. The two week interval between Dev and Test environments will the best opportunity to debug and integrate your application with the new version of Keycloak.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Between Test and Prod, there will be __one week__ to report any bugs, or integration issues.
```
(duplicate of 2 week interval messaging from previous paragraph is not needed)

> Platform Service team will able available on supporting with issues encountered after the upgrade if any admin action is needed. However, if you have any customization in the realm, please refer to the release note (provided in the top of the doc) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Platform Service team will able available for support with issues encountered after the upgrade if any admin action is needed.  However, if you have any customization in the realm, please refer to the release note (provided in the top of the doc) for details.
```
